backend/genfit_django/api_documentations/goals.md, before:


# Fitness Goals API Documentation

This document provides comprehensive details about the Fitness Goals API for front-end integration.

## Base URL

All endpoints are relative to your base API URL (e.g., `http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/`).

## Table of Contents
- [Authentication](#authentication)
- [Endpoints Overview](#endpoints-overview)
- [Detailed Endpoint Documentation](#detailed-endpoint-documentation)
  - [List and Create Fitness Goals](#list-and-create-goals)
  - [Retrieve, Update and Delete a Fitness Goal](#retrieve-update-and-delete-a-fitness-goal)
  - [Update Goal Progress](#update-goal-progress)
  - [Check Inactive Goals](#check-inactive-goals)
- [Models and Data Structures](#models-and-data-structures)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)
- [Additional Notes](#additional-notes)



## Endpoints Overview

| Method | Endpoint                        | Description                                                        |
|--------|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| GET | `/api/goals/`                   | List goals for the authenticated user; mentors can view mentee goals via `?username=<mentee_username>` |
| POST | `/api/goals/`                   | Create a new fitness goal                                          |
| GET | `/api/goals/:goal_id/`          | Retrieve a specific fitness goal                                   |
| PUT | `/api/goals/:goal_id/`          | Update a specific fitness goal                                     |
| DELETE | `/api/goals/:goal_id/`          | Delete a specific fitness goal                                     |
| PATCH | `/api/goals/:goal_id/progress/` | Update progress for a specific goal                                |
| GET | `/api/goals/check-inactive/`    | Check and mark inactive goals                                      |

## Detailed Endpoint Documentation

### List and Create Fitness Goals

#### `GET /api/goals/`

Retrieves all fitness goals that the authenticated user has access to.

- Without query params: lists goals owned by the authenticated user.
- With `?username=<mentee_username>`: if the authenticated user is the mentor of `<mentee_username>` and the relationship is `ACCEPTED`, lists all goals of that mentee.

**Response (200 OK)**
```json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "Run 5K",
    "description": "Complete a 5K run under 30 minutes",
    "user": 5,
    "mentor": 3,
    "category": "CARDIO",
    "target_value": 5.0,
    "current_value": 2.5,
    "unit": "km",
    "start_date": "2025-04-10T10:00:00Z",
    "target_date": "2025-05-10T10:00:00Z",
    "status": "ACTIVE",
    "last_updated": "2025-04-20T14:30:00Z"
  },
  // Additional goals...
]
```

#### `POST /api/goals/`

Creates a new fitness goal.

- For self: omit `user` or set it to your own ID; `mentor` will be `null`.
- For mentor assigning to a mentee: include `user` with the mentee’s ID; requires an `ACCEPTED` mentor–mentee relationship; `mentor` is automatically set to the authenticated user.

**Request Body**
```json
{
  "title": "Bench Press Goal",
  "description": "Increase bench press weight to 100kg",
  "user": 5,
  "goal_type": "WORKOUT",
  "target_value": 100.0,
  "unit": "kg",
  "start_date": "2025-04-24T00:00:00Z",
  "target_date": "2025-06-24T00:00:00Z"
}
```

**Response (201 Created)**
```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "title": "Bench Press Goal",
  "description": "Increase bench press weight to 100kg",
  "user": 5,
  "mentor": 7,
  "goal_type": "WORKOUT",
  "target_value": 100.0,
  "current_value": 0.0,
  "unit": "kg",
  "start_date": "2025-04-24T00:00:00Z",
  "target_date": "2025-06-24T00:00:00Z",
  "status": "ACTIVE",
  "last_updated": "2025-04-24T15:40:00Z",
  "progress_percentage": 0.0
}
```

**Notes:**
- If the authenticated user is a mentor and includes a mentee `user` ID, a `GOAL` notification is automatically created for the mentee.
- Status is automatically set to `ACTIVE` for new goals.
- The `mentor` field is set only when a mentor creates a goal for a mentee.

### Retrieve, Update and Delete a Fitness Goal

#### `GET /api/goals/:goal_id/`

Retrieves a specific fitness goal by its ID.

**Response (200 OK)**
```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "title": "Run 5K",
  "description": "Complete a 5K run under 30 minutes",
  "user": 5,
  "mentor": 3,
  "goal_type": "WALKING_RUNNING",
  "target_value": 5.0,
  "current_value": 2.5,
  "unit": "km",
  "start_date": "2025-04-10T10:00:00Z",
  "target_date": "2025-05-10T10:00:00Z",
  "status": "ACTIVE",
  "last_updated": "2025-04-20T14:30:00Z",
  "progress_percentage": 50.0
}
```

#### `PUT /api/goals/:goal_id/`

Updates a specific fitness goal. Partial updates are supported.

**Request Body**
```json
{
  "title": "Updated Goal Title",
  "description": "Updated goal description",
  "target_date": "2025-07-01T00:00:00Z"
}
```

**Response (200 OK)**
```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "title": "Updated Goal Title",
  "description": "Updated goal description",
  "user": 5,
  "mentor": 3,
  "goal_type": "WALKING_RUNNING",
  "target_value": 5.0,
  "current_value": 2.5,
  "unit": "km",
  "start_date": "2025-04-10T10:00:00Z",
  "target_date": "2025-07-01T00:00:00Z",
  "status": "ACTIVE",
  "last_updated": "2025-04-24T16:30:00Z",
  "progress_percentage": 50.0
}
```

#### `DELETE /api/goals/:goal_id/`

Deletes a specific fitness goal.

**Response (204 No Content)**

No response body is returned.

### Update Goal Progress

#### `PATCH /api/goals/:goal_id/progress/`

Updates the progress of a specific fitness goal. This endpoint is specifically designed for updating the current value of a goal or restarting a goal.

**Request Body (Update Progress)**
```json
{
  "current_value": 4.0
}
```

**Request Body (Restart Goal)**
```json
{
  "status": "RESTARTED"
}
```

**Response (200 OK)**
```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "title": "Run 5K",
  "description": "Complete a 5K run under 30 minutes",
  "user": 5,
  "mentor": 3,
  "category": "CARDIO",
  "target_value": 5.0,
  "current_value": 4.0,
  "unit": "km",
  "start_date": "2025-04-10T10:00:00Z",
  "target_date": "2025-05-10T10:00:00Z",
  "status": "ACTIVE",
  "last_updated": "2025-04-24T16:45:00Z"
}
```

**Important Note:**
- Only the goal owner (mentee) can update progress.
- This endpoint expects the **final value** for the goal progress, not incremental values. Any additions to the previous progress must be calculated in the front-end before sending the request.
- If the `current_value` reaches or exceeds the `target_value`, the goal status is automatically set to `COMPLETED` and a notification is created.
- When restarting a goal, the `current_value` is reset to 0 and the `start_date` is updated to the current time.

### Check Inactive Goals

#### `GET /api/goals/check-inactive/`

Checks for and marks goals that have been inactive for more than 7 days. A goal is considered inactive if it hasn't been updated in the last 7 days.

**Response (200 OK)**
```json
{
  "message": "3 goals marked as inactive"
}
```

**Notes:**
- For each inactive goal, the status will be changed to "INACTIVE".
- A notification will be created for each inactive goal to remind the user.
- This endpoint is typically used for periodic checks, such as via a cron job or scheduled task, but can also be triggered manually.

## Models and Data Structures

### Fitness Goal Model

| Field | Type | Description                                                                      |
|-------|------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| id | Integer | Unique identifier for the goal                                                   |
| title | String | The title of the fitness goal                                                    |
| description | String | Detailed description of the goal                                                 |
| user | Integer | User ID of the goal owner                                                        |
| mentor | Integer (Optional) | User ID of the mentor assigned to the goal (set only when mentor creates) |
| goal_type | String | Type of the goal (e.g., WALKING_RUNNING, WORKOUT, CYCLING, SPORTS, SWIMMING) |
| target_value | Float | Target numerical value to achieve                                                |
| current_value | Float | Current progress value                                                           |
| unit | String | Unit of measurement (e.g., kg, km, reps)                                         |
| start_date | DateTime | When the goal was started                                                        |
| target_date | DateTime | Deadline for completing the goal                                                 |
| status | String | Current status (ACTIVE, COMPLETED, INACTIVE, RESTARTED)                          |
| last_updated | DateTime | When the goal was last updated                                                   |

### Notification Types

The API automatically generates notifications in the following scenarios:

1. **GOAL** - When a mentor assigns a new goal to a mentee
2. **ACHIEVEMENT** - When a user completes a goal
3. **GOAL_INACTIVE** - When a goal has been inactive for more than 7 days

## Error Handling

### Common Error Responses

| Status Code | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| 400 Bad Request | Invalid request body or parameters |
| 401 Unauthorized | Authentication credentials were not provided or are invalid |
| 403 Forbidden | The authenticated user doesn't have permission to access the resource |
| 404 Not Found | The requested resource was not found |
| 500 Server Error | An unexpected error occurred on the server |

Error responses will include a JSON body with details about the error:

```json
{
  "detail": "Error message describing the issue"
}
```

## Additional Notes

1. Users can view their own goals. Mentors can view a mentee’s goals using `?username=<mentee_username>` and an `ACCEPTED` relationship.
2. Only the goal owner or the mentor who created the goal can retrieve, update, or delete it.
3. The progress update endpoint is limited to the goal owner.
4. Automatic notifications are generated for:
   - New goals assigned by mentors
   - Completed goals
   - Goals that become inactive
5. Being a coach is unrelated to being a mentor.
6. All timestamps are in UTC format.

Commit message:

goal logic is changed in a way to make goals public

backend/genfit_django/api_documentations/goals.md, after:


# Fitness Goals API Documentation

This document provides comprehensive details about the Fitness Goals API for front-end integration.

## Base URL

All endpoints are relative to your base API URL (e.g., `http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/`).

## Table of Contents
- [Authentication](#authentication)
- [Endpoints Overview](#endpoints-overview)
- [Detailed Endpoint Documentation](#detailed-endpoint-documentation)
  - [List and Create Fitness Goals](#list-and-create-goals)
  - [Retrieve, Update and Delete a Fitness Goal](#retrieve-update-and-delete-a-fitness-goal)
  - [Update Goal Progress](#update-goal-progress)
  - [Check Inactive Goals](#check-inactive-goals)
- [Models and Data Structures](#models-and-data-structures)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)
- [Additional Notes](#additional-notes)



## Endpoints Overview

| Method | Endpoint                        | Description                                                        |
|--------|---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| GET | `/api/goals/`                   | List goals for the authenticated user; view any user's goals via `?username=<username>` |
| POST | `/api/goals/`                   | Create a new fitness goal                                          |
| GET | `/api/goals/:goal_id/`          | Retrieve a specific fitness goal                                   |
| PUT | `/api/goals/:goal_id/`          | Update a specific fitness goal                                     |
| DELETE | `/api/goals/:goal_id/`          | Delete a specific fitness goal                                     |
| PATCH | `/api/goals/:goal_id/progress/` | Update progress for a specific goal                                |
| GET | `/api/goals/check-inactive/`    | Check and mark inactive goals                                      |

## Detailed Endpoint Documentation

### List and Create Fitness Goals

#### `GET /api/goals/`

Retrieves fitness goals.

- Without query params: lists goals owned by the authenticated user.
- With `?username=<username>`: lists all goals of the specified user (read-only). No mentor relationship is required for viewing.

**Response (200 OK)**
```json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "Run 5K",
    "description": "Complete a 5K run under 30 minutes",
    "user": 5,
    "mentor": 3,
    "category": "CARDIO",
    "target_value": 5.0,
    "current_value": 2.5,
    "unit": "km",
    "start_date": "2025-04-10T10:00:00Z",
    "target_date": "2025-05-10T10:00:00Z",
    "status": "ACTIVE",
    "last_updated": "2025-04-20T14:30:00Z"
  },
  // Additional goals...
]
```

#### `POST /api/goals/`

Creates a new fitness goal.

- For self: omit `user` or set it to your own ID; `mentor` will be `null`.
- For mentor assigning to a mentee: include `user` with the mentee’s ID; requires an `ACCEPTED` mentor–mentee relationship; `mentor` is automatically set to the authenticated user.

**Request Body**
```json
{
  "title": "Bench Press Goal",
  "description": "Increase bench press weight to 100kg",
  "user": 5,
  "goal_type": "WORKOUT",
  "target_value": 100.0,
  "unit": "kg",
  "start_date": "2025-04-24T00:00:00Z",
  "target_date": "2025-06-24T00:00:00Z"
}
```

**Response (201 Created)**
```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "title": "Bench Press Goal",
  "description": "Increase bench press weight to 100kg",
  "user": 5,
  "mentor": 7,
  "goal_type": "WORKOUT",
  "target_value": 100.0,
  "current_value": 0.0,
  "unit": "kg",
  "start_date": "2025-04-24T00:00:00Z",
  "target_date": "2025-06-24T00:00:00Z",
  "status": "ACTIVE",
  "last_updated": "2025-04-24T15:40:00Z",
  "progress_percentage": 0.0
}
```

**Notes:**
- If the authenticated user is a mentor and includes a mentee `user` ID, a `GOAL` notification is automatically created for the mentee.
- Status is automatically set to `ACTIVE` for new goals.
- The `mentor` field is set only when a mentor creates a goal for a mentee.

### Permissions Summary

- Viewing goals:
  - Any authenticated user can view another user's goals using `?username=<username>`.
  - Goal detail (`GET /api/goals/:goal_id/`) is restricted to the goal owner or the mentor who created that goal.
- Creating goals (`POST /api/goals/`):
  - Users can create their own goals.
  - Mentors can create goals for mentees only with an `ACCEPTED` mentor–mentee relationship; the created goal's `mentor` is set to the creator.
- Updating goals (`PUT /api/goals/:goal_id/`):
  - Owners can update any fields.
  - Mentors can update only the goals they created and cannot update progression (`current_value`).
- Deleting goals (`DELETE /api/goals/:goal_id/`):
  - Owners can delete any of their goals.
  - Mentors can delete only goals they created (where `mentor` equals the mentor).
- Progress updates (`PATCH /api/goals/:goal_id/progress/`):
  - Only the goal owner can update progress or restart.

### Retrieve, Update and Delete a Fitness Goal

#### `GET /api/goals/:goal_id/`

Retrieves a specific fitness goal by its ID.

**Response (200 OK)**
```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "title": "Run 5K",
  "description": "Complete a 5K run under 30 minutes",
  "user": 5,
  "mentor": 3,
  "goal_type": "WALKING_RUNNING",
  "target_value": 5.0,
  "current_value": 2.5,
  "unit": "km",
  "start_date": "2025-04-10T10:00:00Z",
  "target_date": "2025-05-10T10:00:00Z",
  "status": "ACTIVE",
  "last_updated": "2025-04-20T14:30:00Z",
  "progress_percentage": 50.0
}
```

#### `PUT /api/goals/:goal_id/`

Updates a specific fitness goal. Partial updates are supported.

**Request Body**
```json
{
  "title": "Updated Goal Title",
  "description": "Updated goal description",
  "target_date": "2025-07-01T00:00:00Z"
}
```

**Response (200 OK)**
```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "title": "Updated Goal Title",
  "description": "Updated goal description",
  "user": 5,
  "mentor": 3,
  "goal_type": "WALKING_RUNNING",
  "target_value": 5.0,
  "current_value": 2.5,
  "unit": "km",
  "start_date": "2025-04-10T10:00:00Z",
  "target_date": "2025-07-01T00:00:00Z",
  "status": "ACTIVE",
  "last_updated": "2025-04-24T16:30:00Z",
  "progress_percentage": 50.0
}
```

#### `DELETE /api/goals/:goal_id/`

Deletes a specific fitness goal.

**Response (204 No Content)**

No response body is returned.

### Update Goal Progress

#### `PATCH /api/goals/:goal_id/progress/`

Updates the progress of a specific fitness goal. This endpoint is specifically designed for updating the current value of a goal or restarting a goal.

**Request Body (Update Progress)**
```json
{
  "current_value": 4.0
}
```

**Request Body (Restart Goal)**
```json
{
  "status": "RESTARTED"
}
```

**Response (200 OK)**
```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "title": "Run 5K",
  "description": "Complete a 5K run under 30 minutes",
  "user": 5,
  "mentor": 3,
  "category": "CARDIO",
  "target_value": 5.0,
  "current_value": 4.0,
  "unit": "km",
  "start_date": "2025-04-10T10:00:00Z",
  "target_date": "2025-05-10T10:00:00Z",
  "status": "ACTIVE",
  "last_updated": "2025-04-24T16:45:00Z"
}
```

**Important Note:**
- Only the goal owner (mentee) can update progress.
- This endpoint expects the **final value** for the goal progress, not incremental values. Any additions to the previous progress must be calculated in the front-end before sending the request.
- If the `current_value` reaches or exceeds the `target_value`, the goal status is automatically set to `COMPLETED` and a notification is created.
- When restarting a goal, the `current_value` is reset to 0 and the `start_date` is updated to the current time.

### Check Inactive Goals

#### `GET /api/goals/check-inactive/`

Checks for and marks goals that have been inactive for more than 7 days. A goal is considered inactive if it hasn't been updated in the last 7 days.

**Response (200 OK)**
```json
{
  "message": "3 goals marked as inactive"
}
```

**Notes:**
- For each inactive goal, the status will be changed to "INACTIVE".
- A notification will be created for each inactive goal to remind the user.
- This endpoint is typically used for periodic checks, such as via a cron job or scheduled task, but can also be triggered manually.

## Models and Data Structures

### Fitness Goal Model

| Field | Type | Description                                                                      |
|-------|------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| id | Integer | Unique identifier for the goal                                                   |
| title | String | The title of the fitness goal                                                    |
| description | String | Detailed description of the goal                                                 |
| user | Integer | User ID of the goal owner                                                        |
| mentor | Integer (Optional) | User ID of the mentor assigned to the goal (set only when mentor creates) |
| goal_type | String | Type of the goal (e.g., WALKING_RUNNING, WORKOUT, CYCLING, SPORTS, SWIMMING) |
| target_value | Float | Target numerical value to achieve                                                |
| current_value | Float | Current progress value                                                           |
| unit | String | Unit of measurement (e.g., kg, km, reps)                                         |
| start_date | DateTime | When the goal was started                                                        |
| target_date | DateTime | Deadline for completing the goal                                                 |
| status | String | Current status (ACTIVE, COMPLETED, INACTIVE, RESTARTED)                          |
| last_updated | DateTime | When the goal was last updated                                                   |

### Notification Types

The API automatically generates notifications in the following scenarios:

1. **GOAL** - When a mentor assigns a new goal to a mentee
2. **ACHIEVEMENT** - When a user completes a goal
3. **GOAL_INACTIVE** - When a goal has been inactive for more than 7 days

## Error Handling

### Common Error Responses

| Status Code | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| 400 Bad Request | Invalid request body or parameters |
| 401 Unauthorized | Authentication credentials were not provided or are invalid |
| 403 Forbidden | The authenticated user doesn't have permission to access the resource |
| 404 Not Found | The requested resource was not found |
| 500 Server Error | An unexpected error occurred on the server |

Error responses will include a JSON body with details about the error:

```json
{
  "detail": "Error message describing the issue"
}
```

## Additional Notes

1. Users can view their own goals. Mentors can view a mentee’s goals using `?username=<mentee_username>` and an `ACCEPTED` relationship.
2. Only the goal owner or the mentor who created the goal can retrieve, update, or delete it.
3. The progress update endpoint is limited to the goal owner.
4. Automatic notifications are generated for:
   - New goals assigned by mentors
   - Completed goals
   - Goals that become inactive
5. Being a coach is unrelated to being a mentor.
6. All timestamps are in UTC format.
